:seedling: Add AI agent context files and update README overview (#3252)
konveyor/tackle2-ui: ARCHITECTURE.md

# Architecture

This document describes the system design and component relationships for tackle2-ui. For the full directory layout and code patterns, see [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md).

## System Context

tackle2-ui is the frontend for [Konveyor](https://konveyor.io), an application modernization platform that runs on Kubernetes. The UI does not manage data directly -- it communicates with backend services through proxied API calls.

```text
+-------------------+        +-----------------+        +------------------+
|   Browser         | <----> | tackle2-ui      | <----> | tackle2-hub      |
|   (React SPA)     |        | (Express proxy) |        | (REST API +      |
+-------------------+        +-----------------+        |  OIDC provider)  |
                                                        +------------------+
```

- **Browser** -- Serves the React + PatternFly single-page application.
- **tackle2-ui server** -- An Express.js process that serves static assets in production and proxies `/hub`, `/oidc`, and `/kai` requests to the Hub API. In development, it additionally proxies to webpack-dev-server.

> - **tackle2-hub** -- The Konveyor Hub REST API. Manages applications, assessments, analyses, tasks, identities, and all domain entities. Also hosts the OIDC provider for authentication. The [OpenAPI spec](https://github.com/konveyor/tackle2-hub/blob/main/docs/openapi3.json) defines the API contract.

Reviewer: The openapi spec isn't always current.  The best source is the golang api code in the hub repo.

Author: Good to know — updated to point to the Go API source as the authoritative reference, with the OpenAPI spec as a secondary doc.

- **Universal paths** (`UniversalPaths`) -- Tasks. Accessible to all authenticated users.

Pages are lazy-loaded with `React.lazy()` and wrapped in `ErrorBoundary` + `Suspense`.

### State Management

- **Server state** -- TanStack Query manages all API data. Each domain entity has a query file in `queries/` exporting `useFetch*`, `useCreate*`, `useUpdate*`, and `useDelete*` hooks. Query keys are exported constants for consistent cache invalidation.
- **Form state** -- `react-hook-form` manages form values, validation, and submission. Forms are validated against `yup` schemas.
- **Table state** -- The `hooks/table-controls/` system provides composable hooks for filtering, sorting, pagination, active item tracking, and row expansion. Supports both client-side and hub-side (server) operations.
- **UI state** -- React context provides global state for notifications (`NotificationsProvider`) and background tasks (`TaskManagerProvider`). Persistent UI state uses `usePersistentState` (URL params or localStorage).

> 

Reviewer: Wizards collect states from each step's form.  This is based on a react/immerjs reducer pattern to collect all of the form states and to drive the behavior of the wizard itself.

Author: Added a wizard state bullet to the State Management section.

| Charts               | @patternfly/react-charts           |
| Drag & drop          | @dnd-kit/core, @dnd-kit/sortable   |
| Server               | Express 5, http-proxy-middleware   |
| E2E testing          | Cypress                            |
| Unit testing         | Jest, @testing-library/react       |

The `common` package is built first and consumed by `client` and `server`. PatternFly version is pinned across all `@patternfly/*` packages to avoid style conflicts.

## Deployment

### Container Image

The Dockerfile uses a multi-stage build:

1. **Builder stage** (`ubi10/nodejs-22`) -- Installs dependencies, builds all workspaces, runs `npm run dist` to assemble distributable files.
2. **Runner stage** (`ubi10/nodejs-22-minimal`) -- Copies built artifacts, runs `entrypoint.sh` to start the Express server.

The image is published to `quay.io/konveyor/tackle2-ui` and deployed by the [Konveyor Operator](https://github.com/konveyor/operator) as a pod within the Konveyor deployment.

### CI/CD

GitHub Actions workflows handle:

- **`ci-repo.yml`** -- Repo-level CI: linting, unit tests, build verification. Runs on push and PR.

> - **`ci-global.yml`** -- Global Konveyor CI: deploys the operator with the UI image and runs e2e tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`ci-e2e-tests.yml`** -- Run e2e CI: deploys the operator with the UI image and runs e2e tests.
```

Author: 👍 Fixed.
